## How to generate one-pagers

This repository can be used to generate the one-pagers for infrastructure units in the IAB 2021 report. It can easily be modified to accomodate new layouts for pdfs. Please note that modifications will be needed as the name of infrastructure units change in future years.

- .ttf files: these are font files for the pdf. To change the font, add new .ttf files and refer to those in Make_pdfs.py.

- colour_science_2020.py: This file contains all of the colours required to align with the SciLifeLab visual Identity (outlined in 2020). It also includes relevant colours for the institutions involved in working with infrastructure units. Additions/edits may be required in subsequent years to align with any changes to the visual ID of those organisations or to accomodate new organisations.

- input_data.py: This file completes all the data manipulation required to produce the annual reports. It includes instructions on how checks may be performed and where data comes from. Necessary to set the input files in here and functions are in the comments to enable checking. There will be an excel file generated when this script is run called 'Check_me_manual.xlsx'. This should be used to determine whether there is any way to further increase the number of matches to JIF score. It is likely that some manual changes can be done to increase the number of matches. The excel input files can be modified to achieve this. It may also be possible that adding certain text edits in the code can further maximise text matching in future years.

- Make_plots.py: this script can be used to generate all the plots that were included in the one pagers (i.e. stacked bar plots on JIF, stacked bar plots about qualifier labels, and pie charts about users). There is unlikely to be reason to modify the bar plots. However, it is very likely that it will be necessary to modify the pie charts. This is because the pie charts need to fit in a certain space, and if labels around the edges a long, this can cause the chart itself to become very small. There are two functions in this script for the pie charts, both formatting the labels in a slightly different way. It is recommended to produce all the charts in one way first, look at the one pagers and see which need modifications, and then run the second function for particular units. There is commented out script to show how this was done for 2021.

- Make_pdfs.py: there are comments in the script to make modifications. There are also caveats (primarily if statements) in the script that apply to specific units. These might need changes in future. In some previous reports, the spacing has differed between units according to whether data for e.g. users were available for all years. This is not the case here; if data was not available, then a statement is written to show that data is not available. The warnings generated by this script can be helpful in determining whether data is missing (sometimes this is expected, sometimes data is available), and if there are any specific notes for the unit.